The Project Gutenberg eBook of The fairy babies, by Laura Rountree
Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The fairy babies

Author: Laura Rountree Smith

Illustrator: Dorothy Dulin

Release Date: September 30, 2022 [eBook #69075]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from
             images generously made available by The Internet
             Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FAIRY BABIES ***






THE FAIRY BABIES




Books by

LAURA ROUNTREE SMITH


    Bunny and Bear Book, The
    Bunny Boy and Grizzly Bear
    Bunny Bright-Eyes
    Bunny Cotton-Tail Junior
    Candy-Shop Cotton-Tails, The
    Children’s Favorite Stories
    Circus Book, The
    Circus Cotton-Tails, The
    Cotton-Tail First Reader, The
    Cotton-Tail Primer, The
    Cotton-Tails in Toyland, The
    Drills and Plays for Patriotic Days
    Fairy Babies, The
    Games and Plays
    Hawk-Eye and Hiawatha
    Language Lessons from Every Land
    Little Bear
    Little Eskimo
    Merry Little Cotton-Tails, The
    Mother Goose Stories
    Primary Song Book
    Roly-Poly Book, The
    Runaway Bunny, The
    Seventeen Little Bears
    Snubby Nose and Tippy Toes
    Tale of Bunny Cotton-Tail, The
    Three Little Cotton-Tails

                               Published by
                           A. FLANAGAN COMPANY
                                 CHICAGO




                             THE FAIRY BABIES

                                    By
                           Laura Rountree Smith

                              Illustrated by
                              Dorothy Dulin

                                   1924
                           A. FLANAGAN COMPANY
                                 Chicago

                _COPYRIGHT, 1924, BY A. FLANAGAN COMPANY_

                 PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




CONTENTS


                                    Page

                  Chapter I

    The Magic Pitcher                  7

                  Chapter II

    The Fortune Teller                16

                  Chapter III

    Thanksgiving Dinner               29

                  Chapter IV

    The Little Dwarf’s Christmas      39

                  Chapter V

    A Wonderful Dream                 50

                  Chapter VI

    The Magic Spoon                   64

                  Chapter VII

    The Magic Kites                   77

                  Chapter VIII

    The Magic Rocking-Chair           91

                  Chapter IX

    May-Day                          103

                  Chapter X

    Vacation Time                    114




[Illustration: “_And they put the key in the lock_” (PAGE 89)]




THE FAIRY BABIES




CHAPTER I

THE MAGIC PITCHER

    Said the Fairy Ink-Bottle Babies, “What do you think?
    We all came out of a bottle of ink!
    We are very little to mind each rule,
    But still we are going to start to school;
    And if we remember, it starts in September!
    This old-fashioned thing called school!”
    Said the Fairy Ink-Bottle Babies, “What fun!
    See, school has already begun!”


The Fairy Ink-Bottle Babies sat in a row. They looked as though they
would roll off the top of the desks at any minute.

“You are almost as bad about rolling over as the Roly-Poly children,”
said the teacher.

“Oh! oh! oh!” cried one of the Ink-Bottle Babies. “I am rolling over!”

Sure enough, thump! bump! thump! she went. She fell off the desk to the
floor, leaving the marks of her little black feet behind her.

“Oh! oh! oh!” cried all the Ink-Bottle Babies together, “somebody pick
her up! Somebody pick her up!”

The teacher was so scared that she went out of the room.

Pretty soon all the children went home. What do you suppose happened next?

The Fairy Ink-Bottle Mamma came down from the window sill and picked up
her baby!

[Illustration: “_Picked up her baby_”]

She said, “You are too little to go to school; you had better come with
me.”

Then the other Ink-Bottle Babies set up a cry, “May we come, too, Ma? May
we come, too?”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “Creep down quietly from the desks and you may
all come.”

Then all the Ink-Bottle Babies crept down and followed their Mamma out of
the door. They walked a little way until they came to their home in the
woods.

“I am so sleepy,” said the first Ink-Bottle Baby.

“I am so sleepy,” said the second Ink-Bottle Baby.

Then all but one of the twenty-five Ink-Bottle Babies said, “I am so
sleepy!”

One Ink-Bottle Baby said, “I am not sleepy at all. I rolled off the desk
and I feel wide-awake!”

This little Baby’s name was Molly. The Ink-Bottle Mamma put all of her
babies to bed except Molly, and Molly said,

    “I am wide-awake as if it were day,
    I’ll sit on the parlor rug and play.”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma was so sleepy herself that she did not know what to
do. Pretty soon she said, “Listen, Molly, and I will tell you a fairy
tale.”

Then Molly cried, “I must wake Polly up to hear the fairy tale.” Polly
was Molly’s twin sister.

Will you believe it? Before the Ink-Bottle Mamma could say “No!” Molly
had gone upstairs and had waked all the Babies up before she found Polly!

The Ink-Bottle Babies looked so much alike it was hard to tell them apart!

All the Ink-Bottle Babies woke up and cried, “We want to hear the fairy
tale, Ma! Please tell us all a fairy tale!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “Get back into bed, every one of you, and
I will tell you a story.”

Then the Babies all crept back into bed and their Mamma told them the
story of the Magic Pitcher.

Here is the story she told:

Once there was a little dwarf who lived alone in the woods. He lived in
a little blue house with a red chimney. He was very proud of his red
chimney. He painted the chimney every spring.

The little dwarf was very good-natured except when he started to cook.
He could not cook a decent meal to save his life. He went about all day
humming a little song:

    “I can live without clothing and live without books,
    But how is a fellow to live without cooks?”

One day as he passed by a little brook he sang this song, and the brook
said,

    “If you take the pebbles from out this brook,
    I will try to help you find a cook!”

Then the little dwarf stooped down and began to pick the pebbles out of
the brook.

At last, only one large stone remained. He pulled and tugged with all his
might, and at last the brook ran merrily along, for he got the big stone
up on the bank.

The brook sang,

    “Look again, now I am free,
    The magic pitcher you will see!”

The little dwarf looked down into the brook, and sure enough, there was a
magic pitcher all blue and gold. The water ran deeper now, in the little
brook, so the little dwarf had to dive down after the pitcher.

He came out choking and sputtering, but he had the magic pitcher in his
hand. Then he ran homeward singing and whistling all the way. He sang:

    “I can live without clothing and live without books,
    But how is a fellow to live without cooks?”

[Illustration: “_He poured once more_”]

He got some bread and cheese out of a cupboard and drew the pitcher full
of water, and sat down to his lonely meal.

He started to pour out a glass of water, and as he poured it from the
magic pitcher, it turned into fine, rich milk. He poured once more, and
this time it was honey that came out of the magic pitcher.

He tried again and out came tea! So it went on. Every time he poured from
the magic pitcher, out came something delicious to drink.

The little dwarf grew so happy and healthy that when he went into the
woods to chop down trees he could chop six trees while the other little
dwarfs could only chop down one.

He never sang any more about wanting a cook, and he seemed so happy that
the other little dwarfs were jealous of him, and they said, “We will find
out his secret.”

So, one evening when it was late, they all crept to the house where the
little dwarf lived, and they all peeped in at the window.

There sat the little dwarf by the table pouring from his magic pitcher.
He poured out coffee, and cream, and molasses!

My! the other little dwarfs turned green with envy. They said, “We will
have that pitcher.”

They opened the door, ran into the house, seized the pitcher, and ran
away, away, away, into the deep woods.

The little dwarf was so sad, he went to the brook again and said,

    “The dwarfs have carried my pitcher away,
    Alas! alas! alackaday!”

“I will fix them,” said the little brook. “You were so good to take all
my stones away, you shall soon have the pitcher back again; never fear.”

Then the little dwarf went back home singing a merry song.

Now the dwarfs had carried the pitcher away with them, and when they had
run for a long time, they saw a little brook, winding in and out among
the trees, and they said, “We will fill the pitcher with water.”

So the first little dwarf ran and filled the pitcher with water. Then he
ran back to his companions who sat in a circle, and began to fill their
glasses. They all set up a shout, for out of the pitcher came only thick
mud!

“You have played a trick on us,” they cried.

Then the second little dwarf went and filled the pitcher.

“It is pure water,” he said, but when he went to pour from the pitcher,
lo! and behold! out came vinegar!

Then the third little dwarf said, “Let me try,” and the next said, “Let
me try,” but each time there came out of the pitcher something quite
unfit to drink.

Then the dwarfs said, “This pitcher is of no account after all; we will
throw it into the brook.”

They said, “If the little dwarf finds it again, he is welcome to drink
all the mud and vinegar he wants.”

Then they threw the pitcher back into the brook, and the brook carried it
safely back to the place in the woods where the little dwarf passed every
day. Pretty soon the little dwarf came along. He sang,

    “Ha! ha! Ho! ho! What do I see?
    A beautiful pitcher floats in to me!”

He filled the pitcher with water and soon poured out a fine drink of
buttermilk.

He ran home as fast as his legs could carry him, and he hid his pitcher
safely away.

He worked at home very busily all that day. He made shades for his
window, so no one could look in. He put a lock on his door, and he made
a little key to fit the lock.

“Now, no one can see what I pour from my pitcher,” he said, “and no one
can come in, unless I invite him.”

He went to bed and slept well. Late that night a most remarkable thing
happened. Five and twenty little men came to his door and they rapped and
they tapped, and he would not let them in!

Then they laid down five and twenty little parcels on his doorstep and
they crept away. Next morning the little dwarf went to his door and saw
the five and twenty little parcels. They were all from the grocery store.

On each parcel was written, “Compliments from the little dwarfs, with
thanks for the borrowed pitcher.”

On one package was written, “Don’t drink too much mud and vinegar!”

The little dwarf went to the brook and asked what all this meant. When
the brook told him he laughed until he cried.

The little dwarf may still live in the woods, for all I know, and he may
still be drinking out of his magic pitcher.

As soon as the Ink-Bottle Mamma stopped talking all her Babies went to
sleep.




CHAPTER II

THE FORTUNE TELLER

    October, October, you gay little rover,
    You are welcome, the wide world over;
    Merrily, merrily, school-bells ring
    And children all delight to sing.
    The Ink-Bottle Babies are absent to-day,
    Or perhaps they lingered upon the way;
    I heard the Ink-Bottle Babies sigh,
    “We are busy bidding the birds good-bye!”


The Ink-Bottle Babies woke up cross. Every one of them got up out of the
wrong side of the bed!

The Ink-Bottle Mamma called, “Hurry, hurry, or you will all be late to
school!”

Then Molly called, “I can’t find my shoes,” and Polly called, “I can’t
find my dress,” and all the Ink-Bottle Babies set up such a wail that the
Ink-Bottle Mamma had to come upstairs and help them dress.

She said, “My dear children, will you never grow up?”

[Illustration: “_Give us a ride, please!_”]

When they sat down at the table, Molly said, “I don’t want this oatmeal,”
and Polly said, “I don’t want any either.”

Then all the Ink-Bottle Babies said, “We don’t want any oatmeal!”

They laid down their twenty-five little spoons. And will you believe it?
Not one of the Babies would eat any breakfast!

Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “Get down from your chairs, every one of
you.”

The Ink-Bottle Babies got down from their chairs, pouting and scolding.
Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma put on their caps and sent them right off to
school.

“Hurry! hurry!” she said. “Don’t be late for school!”

They had not gone far when the first Ink-Bottle Baby said, “I will not go
another step!”

Then the second Ink-Bottle Baby said, “I will not go another step!”

Then what do you suppose happened next? They all sat down in a row and
they cried and they screamed and they howled!

Just then an old farmer came along with his wagon.

When he saw all the Ink-Bottle Babies in a row, he said, “Bless my heart!
What funny little babies! What are you all doing here?”

Then Molly and Polly cried, “Give us a ride, please! We don’t care which
way we go!”

Then the farmer got down and helped all the Babies into his wagon and
they rode merrily away!

They laughed and talked and said, “Oh!” and “Ah!” and “What a fine ride!”

When they rode by the school they kept very still, and they all crept
down in the bottom of the wagon.

On and on they rode, through the woods and into a town and away off to a
little red house on a farm.

“Will you spend the day with me?” asked the farmer.

The Ink-Bottle Babies cried, “We will! We will!” And they jumped up and
down with joy. They had a fine time all day. They saw the sheep and pigs
and cows, and they took turns riding on a little pony.

When night came Molly and Polly cried, “We want our Ma! We want our Ma!”

The farmer’s wife was very deaf, but she saw that all the Ink-Bottle
Babies were crying at once, so she gave each one a cookie. The cookies
had red sugar on them. They had raisins in them. The Ink-Bottle Babies
cried and would not eat their cookies.

Then the farmer’s wife took Polly on the right arm of her chair, and she
took Molly on the left arm of her chair. Then she let all the rest of the
Ink-Bottle Babies crowd around her.

Next, the farmer’s wife put on her spectacles and opened a great red
book. Then all the Ink-Bottle Babies clapped their hands and set up a
shout, for they could see the name of the book.

It was called “Tip-Top Fairy Tales.”

The farmer’s wife smiled at the Babies and began to read slowly. She
skipped the hard words and stumbled over the easy ones!

If you do not like to listen to her read, you will have to read for
yourself the story of Goldy and Brownie, or The Fortune Teller. Here is
the story:

Once upon a time there were two sisters. They were as different as they
could be.

Goldy was good and beautiful. Brownie was ugly and cross.

One day Goldy said, “I am going down into the valley to see the Fortune
Teller. I am going to have my fortune told.”

Brownie said, “You shall not go. I am afraid you will have a better
fortune than mine if you go first.”

Then Brownie tied Goldy into a chair and she went out of the house and
locked the door.

Brownie said, “I will have my fortune told first.”

She went into the valley where an old Gypsy lived. She knocked at the
door and the Gypsy called out,

    “Cross-Patch, pull the latch,
    Sit by the fire and spin;
    Cross-Patch, pull the latch,
    Open the door, come in.”

[Illustration: “_She stamped her foot_”]

Brownie was a little afraid to pull the latch at first, but as the Gypsy
did not speak again she knew she must do something, so she pulled the
latch. The door opened, and she went into the house.

She said, “You cross old woman, I want my fortune told.”

The Gypsy looked at her and said,

    “You may bake and brew,
    But whatever you do,
    You’ll uglier grow each day;
    But make a wish, just make one wish,
    Make a wish and go away!”

Brownie was so angry she stamped her foot and said the first thing that
came into her mind.

She said, “I wish I had a fine fur coat to wear all the time.”

Then the Gypsy touched her with her cane, and her dress turned into a fur
coat, and Brownie herself turned into a caterpillar!

“There!” said the Gypsy, “I guess you have a fur coat to wear all the
time.”

The Gypsy forgot one thing. She forgot to take away Brownie’s voice, so
she could talk as well as ever.

Brownie went crawling slowly home. She called out to Goldy,

    “Go to the Gypsy, whatever you do,
    A very fine fortune waits there for you!”

She really hoped that the Gypsy would turn her sister into a caterpillar,
too!

Then Brownie sighed, for she remembered that she had tied Goldy into her
chair, and that she could not get away if she wanted to.

Pretty soon a prince came by and Brownie cried,

    “The beautiful princess sits in a chair;
    Just take a peep in the window there!”

The prince was so surprised to hear a voice and see no one, that he cried
out,

    “What shall I do? What shall I do?
    I’ll peep through the window to see if it’s true.”

Then he tiptoed to the window so softly his feet never made a sound, and
sure enough, there he saw Goldy sitting in the chair—tied in, fast asleep.

The prince tried to get into the house. He tried the front door, and the
back door, and the side door, and all the windows. At last he found a
window that would open. He sat on the window sill and cried,

    “Golden Hair, will you come to me?
    May I come in and set you free?”

Then Goldy woke up. She had read about princes, but she had never seen
one before. She was so surprised she only nodded her head.

Then the prince came in and cut the cords that bound her.

Goldy said, “Thank you!” Then she went and made the prince a cup of tea.

They were about to sit down and enjoy the tea when a dove flew in at the
window. It had a message tied round its neck. The message was for the
prince. It said, “Come home at once. Your father is ill.”

So the prince took off his cap with the big feather in it, and made a
bow. Then he went out of the window as suddenly as he had come.

Goldy said to herself, “I will go to the Gypsy and have my fortune told.
Perhaps I shall meet the prince again.”

So she put on her blue dress and sunbonnet, and went to the house where
the Gypsy lived, and knocked at the door.

The Gypsy said,

    “Cross-Patch, pull the latch,
    Sit by the fire and spin;
    Cross-Patch, pull the latch,
    Open the door, come in!”

Then Goldy opened the door and walked in.

“Will you tell my fortune?” she said.

The Gypsy liked Goldy, but to save her life she did not know how to tell
a very good fortune, so she said,

    “Whatever you do your wish will come true,
    So make it, I pray, and go quickly away!”

Goldy was wishing in her heart that she could see the prince, so she said
at once, “I wish I could fly.”

[Illustration: “_She knocked at the door_”]

Then the Gypsy touched her with her cane and her blue dress turned into a
shining pair of wings. She became a beautiful blue butterfly, and sailed
away and away in the sunshine. By and by she sailed into the king’s
garden.

The prince came out and cried, “Oh what a beautiful butterfly.”

Then Goldy told him what had happened and she said, “Go to the Gypsy and
see how I can be changed back again.”

Then the prince went in a hurry to the Gypsy, you may believe. When the
Gypsy heard him knock she cried as before,

    “Cross-Patch, pull the latch,
    Sit by the fire and spin;
    Cross-Patch, pull the latch,
    Open the door, come in!”

The prince opened the door and made his very best bow and said, “I wish
Goldy were changed back into a beautiful girl and standing here beside
me.”

The Gypsy nodded her head and soon a blue butterfly came floating in
through the window. The Gypsy said a magic verse, and changed the
butterfly back into the girl Goldy.

Then Goldy and the prince thanked the Gypsy. They were married at once,
and they went to live in the king’s palace. They were not so happy as
they had expected to be for Goldy cried all day, “I miss my sister
Brownie. Go and find my ugly little sister.”

The prince went out to look for Brownie. He traveled high and low but he
could not find her.

Then Goldy went out to look for her sister. She went to her old home and
she heard a voice say,

    “I am as lonely as can be,
    Sister Goldy, come to me!”

Then Goldy cried, “Here I am. Where are you hiding, little sister?”

Then Brownie told about her being changed into an ugly caterpillar, and
they went together to the Gypsy.

The Gypsy was sitting on her doorstep and Goldy cried out, “See, I will
give you this golden dish if you will change the caterpillar into my
little sister.”

The Gypsy liked the dish and she said a few magic words and changed the
caterpillar into the girl Brownie.

Brownie was now so happy that she was good-looking. Many a young prince
came and fell in love with her but Brownie was so happy to live with her
sister and the prince, that she sang a very merry song:

    “I have lovers four and twenty;
    One or two would be a plenty;
    And I am as happy as happy can be,
    Since the old Gypsy set me free.”

One day there came to the palace a little lame prince. He was as ugly as
a barb-wire fence, but Brownie let him in. She gave him a cup of tea and
said:

    “I have lovers four and twenty;
    One or two would be a plenty;
    And I am happy as happy can be,
    Since the old Gypsy set me free.”

The little lame prince said, “I am ugly and no one loves me. Will you
marry me?”

Brownie said, “I will marry you.” And they were married in the rose
garden, and they grew better looking and happier every day.

Whenever they saw sick caterpillars or butterflies with broken wings,
they took care of them.

Brownie and Goldy each had a home near the king’s palace, and they were
happy all their lives.

The Ink-Bottle Babies cried, “Is that all? Tell it again! Tell it again!
Please do! Read it or tell it! It is a lovely story!”

The farmer’s wife said, “It must be bedtime.” They looked at the great
clock that stood in the hall, and the clock said it was ten o’clock!

“I am going home to-morrow, and I am going to school,” said Molly.

“I, too,” said Polly.

“We, too,” cried all the Ink-Bottle Babies. “We are all going to learn to
read that story.”

Then they scampered upstairs and went to bed.

Just as they were about to go to sleep, Molly said, “It is awful to have
to spell out the words like the farmer’s wife does.”

Polly said, “I am going to learn to read!”




CHAPTER III

THANKSGIVING DINNER

    Old November’s come once more;
    Children, see the snow!
    Riding out in grandpa’s sleigh,
    We all will gladly go,
    For Thanksgiving brings such joys
    To the waiting girls and boys;
    I heard the Ink-Bottle Babies sigh,
    “Please give us a piece of pumpkin pie!”


Next day the farmer hitched up his horses and took all the Ink-Bottle
Babies home.

They said, “Oh Ma, we want to learn to read. Oh Ma, we will go to school
every day!”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma kissed all her babies and sent them to school.

They wanted so much to learn to read fairy tales that they never missed a
day of school, from the 16th of October to Thanksgiving.

[Illustration: “_They never missed a day of school_”]

The day before Thanksgiving Molly began to cry on the way home from
school. Then Polly began to cry! Pretty soon all the Ink-Bottle Babies
took out their twenty-five little pocket handkerchiefs and began to cry!

When they got home Mamma said, “Why do you cry?”

The first Ink-Bottle Baby said, “I don’t know, boo-hoo!”

The second Ink-Bottle Baby said, “I don’t know, boo-hoo!”

Polly said, “I am crying because Molly is crying.”

Molly said, “I am crying because we have no grandma and grandpa to go to
see on Thanksgiving Day.”

Then all the Ink-Bottle Babies said, “We want a grandma and grandpa,
boo-hoo!”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “Dry your eyes, and I will tell you what to
do.”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies dried their eyes and Mamma said, “Suppose we
go and spend Thanksgiving Day with the farmer and his wife!”

The Ink-Bottle Babies clapped their hands and shouted, “Hurrah! hurrah!”

When they had stopped their noise, Mamma said each Baby should take a pie
in a little basket to the farmer and his wife.

Then she took the Babies to the pantry and showed them twenty-five little
pies all in a row.

The Ink-Bottle Babies were so anxious to start that they said, “To-morrow
will never come!”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma knew a few things to make the time pass, so she
said, “Who will sweep my floor? Who will dust my chairs? Who will wipe my
dishes?”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies all set to work at once, and they swept the
floor and dusted the furniture, and they wiped the dishes, and soon the
work was all done.

At bedtime the Babies said, “Three cheers for the farm. Hurrah for the
farmer and his wife! Hurrah for Thanksgiving Day!”

Then they all went to bed and fell asleep.

Early next morning the Ink-Bottle Babies were all ready to start. Each
one carried a basket. The Ink-Bottle Mamma locked the house and put the
key under the doormat. Then they were all ready to go.

They walked a long way, and were getting quite tired, when a man came
along in his automobile.

He said, “You cunning little Babies, where are you going?”

Then the Babies shouted, “We are going to the farm. We are going to see
the farmer and his wife, and we are taking them some pumpkin pies!”

The man said, “I will take you to the farm if you will give me one or two
of your pies!”

He said, “I have not tasted a pumpkin pie for forty years!”

The Ink-Bottle Babies wept to think of a man not tasting a pie for so
many years, and they all crowded around the automobile and cried, “Take
mine! Please take mine!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma stepped up and said, “Please Sir, we need all
these pies to-day, but if you care to give us a ride and then will call
at my house to-morrow you may have all the pies you can carry.”

The man was delighted, you may be sure. He helped the Ink-Bottle Mamma
right into the automobile and called to the Babies, “Pile in, one and
all!”

Soon they were all riding merrily along the road.

The man allowed Polly and Molly to blow the horn and they rode right into
the farmer’s yard and right up to his front door.

The farmer’s wife came out and cried, “Bless my soul! What a fine
automobile! And bless my soul! Here are the Ink-Bottle Babies again!”

Then the farmer heard the noise and came out and said, “Bless my buttons!
Let me count the Babies! Yes, they are here, every last one of them!”

Then he caught sight of the Ink-Bottle Mamma, and he bowed to her
politely and helped her out.

The man who owned the automobile looked at the farmer and said, “Will you
have a ride, good people?”

Now the farmer and his wife had never ridden in an automobile in their
lives.

The Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “Go right along; don’t mind us; we will get
the dinner!”

The farmer said, “Wait till I get some turkeys and ducks ready for
dinner,” and the farmer’s wife said, “Wait till I make a few dozen pies!”

At the word “pies,” the Ink-Bottle Babies set up a shout, and each one
made a low bow and presented the farmer’s wife with a little pie. She was
so surprised that she hardly knew what to say.

The farmer called, “Put on your old gray bonnet!” Then the Babies began
to sing,

    “Put on your old gray bonnet,
    With the blue ribbons on it!”

Then the stranger said, “You are very sweet singers!”

Soon the farmer and his wife were ready, and they went whizzing away in
the automobile. Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma began to cook the turkeys and
many other things, and the Ink-Bottle Babies had the table all set by the
time the farmer and his wife returned.

Did they have a big dinner? Well, I guess they did. They had turkey and
duck, and sweet-potatoes and white potatoes, and squash, and carrots, and
rice, and jelly, and pickles, and pudding, and cranberry sauce, and cake,
and ice cream, and pumpkin pies!

The farmer and his wife said, “We never had such a happy Thanksgiving
before!”

The Ink-Bottle Babies cried, “Hurrah for the turkey! Hurrah for the
pumpkin pies!”

[Illustration: “_Presented the farmer’s wife with a little pie_”]

After dinner the Babies begged for a story. They said, “Read us a fairy
tale; please read us a fairy tale!”

The farmer’s wife said, “I have broken my glasses and I cannot see to
read, but Pa will tell you a story!”

Then the farmer grew quite red in the face and said, “I don’t know any
fairy stories; honestly I don’t!”

“You know about the fox and the crow,” said the farmer’s wife.

Then the Babies climbed up on his chair and on his knees and there was no
way out of it; he had to begin:

    “There once was a crow, and at early morn
    He spied the farmer’s field of corn;
    He said, ‘As sure as I am born,
    I’ll have that corn, heigh-o!’”

“Go on! Go on!” shouted all the Babies. “Tell about the fox. Please tell
us some more.” Then the farmer said:

    “There once was a fox so very sly
    He knew that farmer’s field hard by;
    ‘To catch the crow, I’m going to try,’
    Said the fox with a soft heigh-o!”

Then the farmer stopped. The Babies begged him to go on but he said,
“Honestly that is all I know.”

“Did the crow get the corn?” asked Molly.

“Did the fox get the crow?” asked Polly.

“I don’t know,” said the farmer. “How can I tell about such things? I
only went to school one year in all my life.”

“Oh,” said the Ink-Bottle Babies, “we intend to go to school for
seventeen years!”

“That is right,” said the farmer; “then you will learn all about the fox
and the crow.”

Just at this minute, the farmer’s wife set up a cry. “Oh see the cunning
little baskets! See the twenty-five little baskets! We must not send them
home empty!”

Then she whispered something in Molly’s ear, and she whispered something
in Polly’s ear, and each Ink-Bottle Baby whispered to the next one.

Then they carried their twenty-five little baskets with them and they all
scampered down to the cellar. The farmer’s wife went with them and showed
them five barrels of apples.

The farmer’s wife said, “Help yourselves. Fill your baskets full.”

What fun they had, picking apples first out of one barrel and then out of
another!

They were all ready to start home at last, when the farmer said, “Where
are the apples for the Ink-Bottle Mamma?”

Then the farmer’s wife gave her a bag of apples and a bag of nuts.

The farmer hitched up his horses to the wagon, and the Ink-Bottle Mamma
and the Ink-Bottle Babies all piled in.

“Crack!” went the whip, and they were off and away singing and whistling
as they went.

The Ink-Bottle Mamma said to the farmer, “It is very kind in you to take
us home in your wagon!”

The farmer said, “I never had twenty-five grandchildren, and I love every
one of your babies.”

The Ink-Bottle Babies began to get sleepy. They tried to remember the
story the farmer had told and they said,

“There once was a fox at early morn.”

“No! That is not right!” said Molly.

Then they tried it again, and they said, “There once was a farmer’s field
of corn.”

“No! no!” shouted Polly, “that is not right.”

The farmer had to tell the story again, and the Babies repeated it after
him in a singsong way:

    “There once was a crow, and at early morn
    He spied the farmer’s field of corn;
    He said, ‘As sure as I am born
    I’ll have that corn, heigh-o!’”




CHAPTER IV

THE LITTLE DWARF’S CHRISTMAS

    Old December’s come again;
    Stockings large and small,
    Hang by the fireside with care,
    For Santa’ll fill them all;
    I heard the Ink-Bottle Babies cry,
    “Santa will in his sleigh dash by;
    We always like to have him call,
    For we have stockings large and small!”


It was December and Christmas was coming.

The Ink-Bottle Babies said, “May we hang up our stockings now? May we
hang all our stockings in a row?”

The Ink-Bottle Babies all talked at once. They made such a noise that the
postman had to rap five times before he could be heard.

Then Molly said, “Hush! Listen! I hear a knock!”

Polly went dancing to the door and came back with a letter in her hand.
The letter was addressed to the Ink-Bottle Mamma.

She opened it and said, “The farmer and his wife want us to go and spend
Christmas day with them! They say, ‘Tell the Babies to bring their
stockings.’”

The Ink-Bottle Babies were glad, you may be sure.

They clapped their hands and shouted, “May we go, Ma? Say yes, Ma. Please
let us go!”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “We will go with pleasure.”

The days passed very fast after that, and it was almost Christmas time;
and all would have gone well, I am sure, but two days before Christmas
Molly was taken sick, and Polly said, “I don’t feel well either.”

Then what do you suppose happened? All the Ink-Bottle Babies came down
with the measles.

They cried and they howled, “We can’t go away on Christmas Day! Oh dear!
Oh dear!”

[Illustration: “_I don’t feel well either_”]

When they had stopped their noise the Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “Never mind,
Santa Claus will not forget you.”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies dried their eyes. They began to think about
Santa Claus.

Toward evening a package was left at the door. It said, “For the measley
Babies from the farmer’s wife.”

When the Ink-Bottle Mamma brought the parcel upstairs the Babies cried,
“Untie it quickly; please do, and let us all see what is inside!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma untied the parcel, and took out a big red book!
The book was called “Tip-Top Fairy Tales.”

The Ink-Bottle Babies were so happy they forgot all about the measles,
and they cried, “Please read us a fairy tale.”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma laughed and sat down and read to them. And here is
the story she read:

There was once a little dwarf who lived all alone in the deep woods. He
was so cross that no one would live with him. One evening as he sat alone
by his fire he heard the tinkle, tinkle, tinkle, of sleigh bells.

“Santa Claus, maybe,” he said, “but what do I know about Santa Claus? I
never hung up my stockings in all my life.”

Nearer and nearer came the sound of sleigh bells. Then there was a great
shout, and the little dwarf went out to see what had happened.

Now what do you suppose had happened?

[Illustration: “_Brushed Santa Claus all over_”]

Santa Claus had driven into a snowdrift and he could not get out. His
sleigh had tipped over and his toys had spilled upon the snow.

Santa Claus was half buried in the snow when the little dwarf ran out and
cried, “Hello, old Santa Claus! Can’t you get out?”

The little dwarf pulled and tugged at the reindeer, and he pulled and
tugged at Santa Claus. Then he went for a snow-shovel, saying, “You are
so big I will have to dig you out!”

He dug Santa Claus out of the snow. Then he and Santa picked up the toys,
and put them all safely back into the sleigh.

Then the little dwarf whisked into the house and came back with a tiny
broom and brushed Santa Claus all over, and helped him shake off the snow.

Poor old Santa Claus was so wet and cold he began to sneeze, “A-kit-chew!
a-kit-chew!”

The little dwarf stamped his foot and said, “This will never do! Come in
and get warm! Come in and dry your whiskers!”

Then Santa Claus laughed until he shook all over, but he was very glad to
follow the little dwarf into the house, though he had to stoop to get in
at the doorway. He said,

    “A bowl of soup if you please,
    Will help Santa not to freeze!”

The little dwarf stamped his foot again and shouted,

    “What do you suppose? What do you suppose?
    Shall I stir soup with my ugly nose?”

Old Santa Claus laughed and said,

    “Ha! ha! ha! hee! hee! hee!
    Make for me a cup of tea!”

The little dwarf stamped his foot again and said,

    “What do you think? What do you think?
    Can an ugly dwarf make tea to drink?”

Then the little dwarf was gone for a long time and Santa Claus almost
fell asleep. He shook himself to keep awake.

He said, “I must not go to sleep to-night of all nights in the year!”

Then he said, “I wish the dwarf would hurry. I wish he would get me some
tea.”

Then Santa Claus began to sing a little song:

    Jolly, jolly Santa Claus
    Rides out across the snow;
    Jolly, jolly Santa Claus
    Brings nicest toys, you know;
    Hang up your stockings large and small,
    For Santa Claus will fill them all;
    Late at evening he will call,
    Jolly Santa Claus!

All the time Santa Claus was singing, the cross little dwarf worked away
in the kitchen.

He rapped and he tapped and he mixed and he stirred, and after awhile he
came in and said,

    “Last call for soup in the dining car!
    Hurry, old Santa, wherever you are!”

Santa Claus went into the kitchen and there was the nicest supper you
ever saw!

The little dwarf yelled,

    “What do you think? My dishes are small,
    So I gave you the bucket, the dish-pan, and all!”

Then Santa Claus laughed until he cried, for sure enough, there was the
soup in the little dwarf’s dish-pan, and the tea was served in a bucket!

Santa Claus was so very hungry that he ate and drank all the food that
was before him.

Then he rolled his eyes and said in a half whisper, “Did you ever hang up
your stocking?”

The little dwarf stamped his foot and cried,

    “What? ho! ho! I am foolish I know,
    But I do not hang up my stocking, no! no!”

“All right,” said Santa Claus, “I must be going. If you change your mind
about the stocking, it will be all right.”

Then Santa Claus put on his great fur cap and his great fur coat, and the
little dwarf stood before him and he stamped his foot and cried,

    “I never hung up my stocking at all,
    I never believed old Santa would call.”

The little dwarf ran out into his barn and got a great armful of hay. It
was all he could do to carry such an armful. He fed Santa’s reindeer.

And Santa Claus said,

    “I thank you kindly, have a care,
    You may find a stocking there!”

Then Santa Claus gave a whistle and shout and his reindeer bounded over
the snow.

“I will not hang my stocking up!” roared the little dwarf, and he stamped
his foot in the snow.

Soon Santa Claus was out of sight. Then the little dwarf went back into
his house.

When he got into the house, he winked and he blinked his eyes, and he was
so surprised that he forgot to scold, for by the fireplace hung a little
red stocking!

“I did not hang that up!” shouted the little dwarf. “I did not hang that
up!”

He took a peep into the stocking, and what do you suppose he saw? There
in the stocking was a little gold cane, just the right size for a little
dwarf.

“Well,” said the dwarf, “that is a pretty nice cane, but mind you, I did
not hang that stocking up!”

By and by he went into the kitchen to wash his dishes, and imagine his
surprise to see all his dishes dry and hanging in their right places.

“I want my own supper!” he roared.

Then he lifted a plate from the shelf, and under it he saw a new penny.
Then he took a spoon from the drawer and out rolled another penny, so it
went on, until he got down the dish-pan to wash his dishes, and a whole
bag full of pennies rolled down and nearly choked him!

Then the little dwarf looked at his pennies and he laughed until he cried.

“I can never count them all,” he said. He put all the pennies in little
piles.

“I shall be quite rich,” he cried. “I wish Santa Claus would call again.”

Then the little dwarf went back and looked at his gold cane. He walked up
and down the room with his cane in his hand.

[Illustration: “_A bag full of pennies rolled down_”]

“I wish Santa Claus had left another red stocking,” he said. “I would
like to wear fine red stockings!”

Then he tripped on the edge of the rug and he rolled the rug up and saw
another red stocking and a red cap and a pair of red mittens!

He was so happy he shouted with delight,

    “Old Santa is a merry elf,
    And I will have a care,
    When Christmas comes again next year,
    My stocking will be there!”

Then what do you suppose that comical little dwarf did?

He put on his red cap and his red stockings and his red mittens, and he
just curled up on the rug and went to sleep!

The Ink-Bottle Babies fell asleep long before the end of the story was
reached, but the Ink-Bottle Mamma liked the story so well that she read
it on to the end to herself.

Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma went to bed. It was now Christmas Eve.

Did Santa Claus remember the Ink-Bottle Babies, and did he fill all their
stockings full?

Well, I guess he did! and the Ink-Bottle Babies all woke up early and
cried, “Oh Ma! please bring us our stockings,” and the Ink-Bottle Mamma
brought in twenty-five stockings full of apples and nuts and toys.

But the great joy of the day was still to come. Molly and Polly had their
beds near the window and they cried, “Oh Ma, here comes a farmer’s wagon!”

Sure enough the wagon came and stopped right at their door. Out jumped
the farmer and his wife!

The twenty-five Ink-Bottle Babies cried, “Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!” and
the farmer and his wife called,

    “Twenty-five babies, all in a row;
    This is Christmas day, you know!”

Then the farmer and his wife made a bow and the Ink-Bottle Babies clapped
their hands and shouted, “Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas!”




CHAPTER V

A WONDERFUL DREAM

    January now is here,
    The first glad month of all the year;
    Get your sled and snowshoes out;
    The coasting is good without a doubt;
    We are so merry and glad, ho! ho!
    We like the winter’s ice and snow;
    I heard the Ink-Bottle Babies say,
    “Snow-men we’ve made all the day!”


One Saturday in January it began to snow, and down came the flakes bigger
and bigger.

By noon the Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “There is enough snow now to make a
snow-man!”

“How can we make a snow-man?” asked Molly.

“Please show us how to make a snow-man,” said Polly.

The Ink-Bottle Mamma shook her head. She said, “I am too stiff and old to
make a snow-man.”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies all began to talk at once and they said, “Will
no one show us how to make a snow-man?”

Then the Mamma said, “Hush! Listen! Stop your noise!”

Then the Babies were still and they heard the far-off tinkle of sleigh
bells.

Molly cried, “Oh, is it the farmer again?”

Polly cried, “Oh, are we going to have company?”

Then the twenty-five little Babies were very still. They flattened their
little noses against the windowpanes, and looked out into the great white
world.

Nearer, nearer, nearer, came the tinkle of sleigh bells, and very soon a
cunning little sleigh came in sight.

In the sleigh were seated two dwarfs. They were as much alike as two peas.

They stopped right in front of the house and got out of the sleigh.

They ran to the door and asked, “Can you tell us if we are on the right
road?”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma bowed and said, “It all depends on where you are
going, gentlemen!”

“It always depends on where we are going,” snapped the first little dwarf.

The second little dwarf said, “We are not gentlemen at all, we are only
dwarfs!”

Just at that minute, the first little dwarf caught sight of the
twenty-five Babies with their noses still flattened against the
windowpanes, and he cried, “Excuse me, but I must have one of those
Babies.”

“Oh! oh! oh!” cried the Ink-Bottle Mamma. “They are not for sale. You
cannot have one of my Babies.”

Then she shut the door quickly and left the two little dwarfs standing on
the doorstep.

“I want one of the Babies!” howled the first little dwarf.

The second little dwarf took him by the arm and led him down the walk
back to their little sleigh.

“I wonder if they live in the deep woods,” said Polly.

“I wonder where they were going,” said Molly.

The Ink-Bottle Mamma went and kissed every one of her Babies.

She said, “They cannot have any of my Babies. I cannot spare one of you!”

The old clock sang a new song. It sounded like this:

    “Tick, tock, tick, tock,
    They’re very sly, very sly,
    Tick, tock, tick, tock,
    They may return by and by.”

[Illustration: “_A whole row of snow-men_”]

The Ink-Bottle Mamma pretended that she did not hear the clock’s song,
and she said, “Hurry, hurry into your caps and mittens and I will tell
you how to make a snow-man!”

Then the twenty-five Ink-Bottle Babies put on their caps and mittens, and
went out doors.

Mamma called to them to roll the snow over and over. Each Baby rolled a
snow-man.

“Put in sticks for arms,” she called. “Make eyes, and mouth, and nose.”

My! what a jolly time the Ink-Bottle Babies had!

They made a whole row of snow-men, and they worked so late that the stars
came out and began to twinkle.

Then twenty-three of the Babies said, “We are cold and hungry. We are
going into the house.”

Molly and Polly said, “Run on; we are not ready to go in yet.”

So the twenty-three Babies ran in and found Mamma making gingersnaps in
the kitchen.

Then Molly said, “Hark! what is that?”

Then Polly said “Hark! I hear something.”

Just at that minute a tiny sleigh drew up at the door. It was the same
sleigh that had been there before.

In the sleigh sat the two little dwarfs. They sat very still. They had
hidden their sleigh bells.

The first little dwarf jumped out of the sleigh and whispered to Molly
and Polly, “Have a sleigh ride? We will bring you home again safe and
sound!”

Then Polly said, “We must ask Ma.”

And Molly said, “I will ask Ma.”

The little dwarf winked his eye and said, “I have asked Ma already!”

So Molly and Polly got into the sleigh and they bounded away, away, away
over the snow.

Why didn’t the Ink-Bottle Mamma come out and stop them? She was busy
making gingersnaps!

“Are you warm enough?” asked the first little dwarf.

Then the second little dwarf began to sing in a drowsy voice,

    “Heigho! over the snow,
    Away in our little sleigh we go;
    Heigho! hear the merry winds blow;
    Away, away, away we go!”

Pretty soon Molly and Polly went to sleep.

When they woke up they found themselves in the cutest little house in the
world. They were in the house of the two little dwarfs!

The little dwarfs capered and danced about them and said, “You are the
cutest Babies in the world. Come and see grandpa!”

They went into the next room and there sat a very old dwarf. He stared at
the Babies and said,

“I am two thousand years old. Pray tell, how old are you?”

“Say you are two hundred,” said the first little dwarf, stamping his foot
at grandpa.

Grandpa shook his head and said, “I have always been two thousand years
old as long as I can remember.”

He pointed his finger at Molly and Polly and said, “Can you tell the
time?”

Then he took a large gold clock out of his pocket. “I always carry a
clock,” he said. “I don’t believe in watches. They run fast or slow.”

Then he turned to the little dwarfs, and said, “Speaking of time, is
supper ready?”

The Ink-Bottle Babies stared at the clock. They could not tell the time.

They said, “We must learn to tell time; there is so much to learn!”

Just then the two little dwarfs said, “Come into the candy room,” and
they all skipped into the next room.

There were bookshelves of candy and sofas of candy, and chairs of candy!

Molly and Polly clapped their hands with delight.

“Eat all you want to!” said the little dwarfs.

“Eat a chair!” shouted the first dwarf.

“Eat a table!” shouted the second dwarf.

“Oh! oh! oh!” cried Molly and Polly, “we must not eat up your furniture,
but it does look good.”

“Eat it all! Eat it all! We have plenty more!” roared the dwarfs.

Then Molly ate a leg of a table and Polly ate the corner of the bookcase.

Just at this time grandpa came in.

[Illustration: “_He was leaning on a cane made of candy_”]

He was hobbling along leaning on a very pretty cane made of striped
candy! He made a funny appearance, indeed.

“Supper time,” he called. “Supper time, I say.”

Then the two little dwarfs offered grandpa a candy rocking-chair, and
they ran and got on the cutest little aprons you ever saw.

They went to the kitchen stove and began to fry and bake and stew, and by
and by they called, “Supper is ready; soup is served.”

They had a nice supper and grandpa was so hungry he ate with a fork and
spoon at the same time!

Molly and Polly had eaten so much candy they could not eat any supper.

Grandpa said, “That is the way our visitors always do.”

Then he pulled the clock out of his pocket and said, “Tell the time,
please.”

Molly and Polly said, “We are sorry but we do not know how to tell the
time.”

“That is too bad,” said grandpa. “If you want to enjoy life, you must
learn to tell the time.”

Just then one of the little dwarfs began to pour out a glass of milk from
a very strange-looking pitcher.

“I wonder if that is the magic pitcher?” whispered Polly.

Polly whispered so loud that the little dwarf heard her.

He was so surprised that he dropped the pitcher and it broke into one
hundred pieces.

The room began to melt away and Molly and Polly woke up and rubbed their
eyes.

The Ink-Bottle Mamma was shaking them.

“You poor dears!” she said. “Are you almost frozen? You have been asleep
in the snow!”

Then she carried Molly and Polly into the house.

They rubbed their eyes again and cried, “Where are the little dwarfs?
Where is the old grandpa? Where is the magic pitcher?”

Then all the Ink-Bottle Babies set up a shout, “You have been asleep! You
fell asleep playing in the snow!”

Molly and Polly could not believe they had been dreaming. They said, “We
went riding in a sleigh!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma put dry clothes on them and said, “Sit and
toast yourselves by the fire, while I get you some gingersnaps!”

When Molly and Polly were warm again, they told their wonderful dream.

When they had finished talking the Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “Can’t you
really tell the time, my dears?”

[Illustration: “_It is nine o’clock_”]

The Ink-Bottle Babies all shook their heads. Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma
gave them twenty-five little circles of pasteboard, and she gave them
some little pieces for hands of each clock.

They fastened the hands on the clocks with twenty-five little pins.

Now she said, “We will make numbers on the clockface.”

So they wrote twelve at the top of the circle, and six at the bottom;
they wrote three at the right and nine at the left; then they put the
other numbers between.

The Mamma said, “Put the long hand at twelve, and the little hand at
nine; now tell the time!”

Not one of the Ink-Bottle Babies could tell what time it was. Could you?

Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma said,

    “The little hand tells the hour, you know,
    As round and round the two hands go;
    The big hand never makes a sound;
    It tells the minutes as it goes around!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies clapped their hands and said, “It is nine
o’clock!”

Then they looked up at the big clock on the mantle-piece, and just then
they cried, “The big clock is nine o’clock, too.”

At this very minute the big clock began to strike.

The Ink-Bottle Babies held their breath and counted the strokes of the
clock.

They counted the strokes on their fingers!

Sure enough, the big clock struck nine.

“Hurrah!” cried the Babies. “We are learning to tell the time.”

Just then there was heard a gentle tap at the door. The door opened and
in walked an Ink-Bottle Baby. She wore a red dress and a red sunbonnet.

She said,

    “How do you do? I am tired, too;
    May I come in and sit with you?”

The Ink-Bottle Babies all shouted, “Can you tell the time?”

The new Ink-Bottle Baby shook her head and said, “I have been walking
over maps all day. The children want a red line here, and a red dot
there, and I am very tired.”

“Did you meet the little dwarfs in the woods?” asked Molly and Polly
together.

“Who are the little dwarfs?” asked the new Ink-Bottle Baby, and Molly and
Polly said,

    “We have a picture of two little dwarfs;
      If you will only look,
    The magic pitcher, too, is seen
      Within our picture-book.”

At the words “magic pitcher,” the new Ink-Bottle Baby sprang from her
chair, and ran out of the house as fast as her legs could carry her.

“Well, what do you think of that?” asked the Ink-Bottle Mamma.

The Ink-Bottle Babies clapped their hands and danced up and down.

They shouted, “There really must be a magic pitcher! There truly must be
a magic pitcher!”

Then they looked out of the window and saw the snow-men they had made.
The snow-men looked very real in the moonlight.

The Ink-Bottle Babies cried, “Listen! the snow-men are singing.”

They kept very still and they heard this song:

    “Last night I saw a funny sight,
    Upon the ground all glistening white;
    Queer people standing in a row,
    Who told me they were made of snow!

    “They waved their arms so queer and long,
    And kept time to a winter song;
    And when I said I’d go away,
    Their frosty voices bade me stay.

    “I looked up at them in surprise,
    And each man rolled his wooden eyes;
    Then said if I’d excuse the joke,
    They’d light a match and take a smoke!

    “Now if you’d like to hear them talk,
    Come out with me and take a walk;
    You’ll find them standing in a row,
    These funny people made of snow!”




CHAPTER VI

THE MAGIC SPOON

    In February as you know,
    Stormy winds will often blow,
    And sometimes on a Saturday,
    In the house the children stay,
    Playing pleasant games, you see,
    They are happy as can be.
    The Ink-Bottle Babies said, “Heart of mine,
    Come now, and make a valentine!”


One Saturday morning it began to storm and it snowed and the wind blew
harder and harder.

The Ink-Bottle Babies said, “Oh Ma! what shall we do?”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “What month is this?”

Molly and Polly said, “It is February.”

Then the twenty-three other Ink-Bottle Babies set up a shout. They cried,
“Valentines! Valentines!”

[Illustration: “_Polly set up a cry_”]

The Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “You have guessed right; we are going to make
valentines.”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies got some tables and scissors and paste.

The Ink-Bottle Mamma brought paper and some pictures, and she said, “You
may cut out some hearts.”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies went to work. They got paste on the table and
on their hands and faces.

Then suddenly Polly set up a cry, and soon all the Ink-Bottle Babies
shouted, “Oh Ma! Polly has cut her finger! Oh Ma! Come quickly!”

Sure enough, Polly had cut her finger.

The Ink-Bottle Mamma came and tied it up and said, “Every one of you wash
your hands. I can’t have all my Babies cut their fingers!”

So the Ink-Bottle Babies got out twenty-five little basins and filled
them with water, and they washed their hands.

Then they said, “Read us a fine fairy tale, Ma, please do.”

So Mamma got out the fairy tale book and read this story of The Magic
Spoon:

Once upon a time there was a merry little dwarf. He sang all day,

    “Who is so merry, heigho! heigho!
    As a dwarf who lives in the woods, heigho!
    He may dance away by the light of the moon,
    But happy is he with his magic spoon!”

Then the little dwarf sat down by the table. He had a great yellow bowl,
and a silver spoon in front of him.

He stirred some flour around in the bowl, and what do you suppose he took
out of the bowl? He took out a beautiful gold necklace!

Then he stirred again, and he took out a blue necklace; then he stirred
again, and he took out a red one.

All the time as he worked he sang over and over,

    “Who is so merry, heigho! heigho!
    As a dwarf who lives in the woods, heigho?
    He may dance away by the light of the moon,
    But happy is he with his magic spoon!”

At last the spoon got tired working and it said,

    “Little dwarf, upon my word,
    What would you do if that song were heard?”

The little dwarf was so surprised to hear the spoon speak that he stopped
stirring the flour in the bowl, and just at that very minute there was
heard a rap at the door.

The little dwarf hid the spoon and went to the door. There stood a very
ugly old dwarf. His name was Cross-Patch. All the dwarfs in the wood were
afraid of him.

He stamped his foot now and said,

    “I have come to get the magic spoon;
    Better give it to me soon;
    Be it morning, night, or noon,
    Will you give up the magic spoon?”

Then the first little dwarf shook his head and cried,

    “I do not give my spoon away;
    You’d better call another day!”

Cross-Patch said,

    “I will call to-morrow noon;
    Then perhaps I’ll get the spoon!”

He went off muttering to himself, and shaking his cross old head as he
went away.

Now the little dwarf was not at all afraid. He said, “I will hide my
spoon in a safe place.”

Then he put on the red necklace and the blue necklace and the gold
necklace, and he said, “When I meet the Fairy Queen I will give her a new
necklace every day.”

Just then the little dwarf heard a great flapping of wings. He looked out
and he saw one hundred crows.

Old Cross-Patch had sent the crows to eat up the little dwarf’s corn!

The crows ate all night, and till noon the next day.

Then they flapped their wings and went away, and old Cross-Patch came and
said,

    “I have come to-day at noon,
    Will you give up the magic spoon?”

The little dwarf was angry, you may be sure. He shook his head and cried,

    “I will not give my spoon away;
    You need not call another day.”

Then old Cross-Patch shook his fist at the little dwarf and ran down the
road. “I have spoiled your corn,” he called back, but this time the
little dwarf did not answer him.

The next night there was a great noise, and five and twenty little dwarfs
came and blew so much soot down the chimney that everything in the little
dwarf’s house was ruined.

I should say everything except one was ruined. The box in which the
little dwarf kept the spoon and necklaces was safe because it was under
his pillow.

The next morning old Cross-Patch came as before and said,

    “Here I am at break of day;
    Will you give your spoon away?”

The little dwarf was very angry and he shouted,

    “I will not give my spoon away;
    You may not have it now, I say.”

Old Cross-Patch went away scolding and grumbling as before. Late that
night there was a great noise, and the bricks from the chimney began to
fall. The little dwarf had just time to grab his box and run out at the
door.

All the bricks from the house fell one upon another, and soon the little
house was all gone; only a pile of bricks remained!

Old Cross-Patch came again and said,

    “If you won’t give the spoon away,
    I’ll turn your pretty hair all gray!”

The little dwarf had lovely golden curls. Now the spoon was so angry at
Cross-Patch that he could stand it no longer.

He turned very red in the face and began to kick and roll over.

He sprang out of the box, and jumped right at old Cross-Patch and cried,

    “Be it morning, night, or noon,
    Come and take the magic spoon!”

Then the spoon boxed Cross-Patch on the right ear and on the left ear.

“Oh! oh! oh! please stop!” called Cross-Patch.

The little dwarf was so tickled he stood by and clapped his hands.

Then the spoon turned to old Cross-Patch and said,

    “You shall build the house again;
    You’ll work in sunshine and in rain.”

[Illustration: “_Boxed Cross-Patch on the right ear_”]

Then old Cross-Patch saw there was no way out of it, so he had to go and
pile one brick on another, and if he did not work fast enough the spoon
would slap him on the back.

The five and twenty dwarfs who had sent soot down the chimney came, and
they were sorry for Cross-Patch, and went to work to help him rebuild the
house.

The spoon danced about and rapped them all sharply every once in a while.

When the house was all done the spoon cried,

    “Now, old Cross-Patch, step inside;
    Clean the rug and fireside.”

The spoon made Cross-Patch clean everything in the house. Then the spoon
cried,

    “Cross-Patch, take your little men,
    Plant the corn in rows again!”

Then Cross-Patch and the little dwarfs worked all night. They planted
corn in the little garden. The spoon got so angry it beat them all until
they were black and blue; then finally it chased old Cross-Patch away,
and away, and away, out into the Land of Nowhere.

The five and twenty little men saw that the corn they had planted was
already beginning to grow, so they laid down and went to sleep.

Pretty soon the spoon came back.

There high in the tree sat the little dwarf; beside him sat the Fairy
Queen.

The Queen said,

    “I try the necklaces, one, two, three,
    But none is good enough for me.”

Then the little dwarf helped the Fairy Queen down from the tree and they
went into the house.

[Illustration: “_I try the necklaces, one, two, three_”]

The spoon went in, too, and it began to stir at a terrible rate, all by
itself in a great big bowl, and pretty soon there came out of the bowl
the finest gold necklace in the land.

The Fairy Queen clapped her hands and cried to the dwarf and the spoon,
“You will always be welcome in my palace.”

Then the dwarf clasped the necklace around her neck, and she was gone.

The spoon stood up very straight and sang,

    “Whatever song you wish to sing,
    Remember, ’tis the safest thing,
    To put the spoon upon the shelf,
    And keep the secret to yourself!”

Then the spoon jumped up into the box on the shelf. The five and twenty
little dwarfs woke up and tapped politely at the door, and asked for
breakfast, but the spoon called out from its hiding place,

    “If you do not go away,
    I’ll box your ears again to-day!”

Then the five and twenty little dwarfs ran away as fast as their legs
could carry them.

The little dwarf forgot what the spoon had said and he went about his
work singing,

    “Who is so merry, heigho! heigho!
    As a dwarf who lives in the woods, heigho?
    He may dance away by the light of the moon,
    But happy is he with his magic spoon.”

Now the magic spoon was so upset to think the little dwarf could not keep
still that he sprang down from the shelf and cried,

    “You will not heed whate’er I say,
    So, little dwarf, you’ll go away!”

Then he beat the little dwarf all the way to the palace of the Fairy
Queen, where he became a servant and he never dared to return to his home.

The magic spoon went back to his place on the shelf.

For all I know he may be there yet!

“Didn’t any one ever see the magic spoon after that?” asked Polly.

“Is it a really, truly, true story?” asked Molly.

Then the other Babies laughed so hard that they rolled over and over on
the floor, and at last they said, “Some day we will go in search of the
magic spoon and the magic pitcher. May we go, Ma?”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma laughed and said, “It is time for you funny little
Babies to go to bed.”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma read so slowly it had taken her all day to read the
story.

The Babies went off happily to bed singing,

    “Oh, the magic pitcher and magic spoon,
    We will try to find them soon;
    By and by to the woods we’ll go,
    And meet the dwarf with his merry heigho!”

Just then some one tapped on the door. It was the Ink-Bottle Papa. He had
been away for his health for a year and a day!

The Ink-Bottle Mamma was glad to see him again, you may be sure.

She said, “Hush, my dear, we may wake the Babies.” But she was not quick
enough, for all the Babies woke up and began to come downstairs by twos
and threes to see who had come to their house.

They hugged their dear Papa until he cried out, “Look in my pockets and
see a surprise!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies looked in his pockets and drew out twenty-five
little silver spoons.

They all looked exactly alike, and the Babies cried, “Thank you, Papa, we
will call them our magic spoons.”

Then the Babies went to bed again.




CHAPTER VII

THE MAGIC KITES

    The merry March wind is singing a song,
        “Blow, blow, blow!
    Sweet springtime is coming, coming along,
        Blow, blow, blow!”
    Said the Ink-Bottle Babies, “Don’t blow us away;”
    They said, “It is fun in the wind to play;
    We’ll fly our kites on this merry March day.
        Blow, blow, blow!”


One day in the merry month of March, the Ink-Bottle Papa said, “I have a
half-holiday. What shall we do?”

Then the twenty-five little Ink-Bottle Babies clapped their hands and
cried, “Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!”

“Shall we do the family washing?” asked the Ink-Bottle Papa with a
twinkle in his eye.

The Ink-Bottle Babies said,

    “We are so little, it is true,
    The washing is very hard to do!”

The Ink-Bottle Papa laughed and he said, “Then shall we sweep the house
all over, from top to bottom?”

Then the Babies said,

    “The brooms are heavy for us to hold,
    And after all we are not very old!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Papa clapped his hands and said, “Shall we mow our
lawn, front and back?”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies cried,

    “We are very little to mow to-day;
    Let us help keep your holiday!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Papa stopped fooling, and he said, “There is a fine
wind for flying kites; we will all make kites to-day; then we will go out
and fly them.”

“Hurrah! Hurrah!” cried the Babies. “We will all make kites. We will make
big kites, little kites, and middle-sized kites!”

Now, did the Ink-Bottle Babies make kites? Well, I guess they did!

[Illustration: “_Oh, oh, oh, my kite pulls so hard!_”]

They cut and they pasted, and they rapped and tapped away, and then they
said,

“Our kites are finished. May we go and fly them, Pa?”

Then the Ink-Bottle Papa said,

    “One, two, three, away we go;
    March like soldiers in a row!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies got into two rows and they followed the
Ink-Bottle Papa over to the meadow.

Then they began to run and fly their kites.

“Oh, oh, oh,” cried Polly, “my kite pulls so hard!”

“Oh, oh, oh,” cried Molly, “I am afraid my kite will get away.”

The Ink-Bottle Papa said, “It is the merry March wind pulling at the
kites!”

Then they laughed and danced and played in the sunshine, and by and by
Papa said, “Come, sit down and rest and I will tell you a story.”

The Ink-Bottle Babies all sat down. They still held on to the strings of
their kites.

The Ink-Bottle Papa began his story of The Magic Kite:

Once upon a time a little boy made a kite. He made the kite of paper and
string.

Then the little boy was very happy, and he said,

    “Blow, merry wind, blow; my kite and I
    Along with the breezes will fly, and fly.”

Just then a voice said,

    “Perhaps you can fly,
    If you only try!”

The little boy looked around, and there sat the funniest little dwarf.
The dwarf sat cross-legged on an old tree-stump.

“Ever think much about flying?” he said, and he screwed his face up into
a thousand wrinkles.

The little boy shook his head.

Then the dwarf said,

    “Flying might be easy for you,
    The butterflies try it,
    The birds try it, too;
    Yes, it might be easy for you!”

The little boy said, “I would like to fly; tell me truly how to do it.”

The little dwarf said, “Just lend me your kite.”

Then the dwarf took the little boy’s kite and he blew on it until it
became bigger and stronger and it was indeed very hard to hold.

The little dwarf then took hold of the string and the kite pulled harder
and harder and harder, and soon it lifted the little dwarf off of his
feet. He did not let go of the string.

The little dwarf went up, up, up among the clouds. Soon the little boy
could see only a speck among the clouds. He was beginning to be sorry he
had loaned the dwarf his kite, for he was afraid he would never see it
again.

Then he heard a whistle and a voice called out,

    “Sailing high up over the town,
    Here I come again, down, down, down.”

Sure enough, down came the little dwarf, holding to the kite.

“Want to fly now?” he asked. “It is lots of fun.”

The little boy lost no time, you may be sure, in taking hold of the kite
string. He took hold of the string and the kite began to pull.

“Hold on tight!” shouted the little dwarf. “Hold on tight!”

Then the little boy went up, up, up, over the tree-tops, and over the
houses until he came to the stars! My, but he was away up high in the
sky!

[Illustration: “_The little boy went up, up, up, until he came to the
stars_”]

The stars were so bright he winked and blinked his eyes, and suddenly he
forgot to keep hold of the string, and down, down, down he fell to earth
again, and his kite flew away and he never saw it again!

“Did the fall hurt him?” asked Molly.

“Did he truly lose his kite forever?” asked Polly.

The Ink-Bottle Papa said, “The boy was not hurt at all, for he fell on
his mother’s feather bed that she had out on the porch airing!”

“Oh my!” cried all the Babies at once. “What fun it would be to fall on
a feather bed! We wish we could fly and fall in soft places, too!”

Just then Molly gave a little cry, and Polly gave a little cry.

What do you suppose was happening?

They felt their kites pulling so hard that they began to go up, up, up.
Before the Ink-Bottle Papa could stop them they had sailed out of sight!

The Ink-Bottle Babies said to the Papa, “We will go home and ask Mamma
what to do. She always tells us what to do!”

Molly and Polly went up, and up, and up, and then just as suddenly they
began to go down, and down, and down.

They said, “We wonder if we will come down on a feather bed?”

Did they come down on a feather bed? Oh no, they came down to a hole in
the ground, and they went down in the hole, down, down, and they still
held their kite strings, and they cried, “What a jolly ride, up and down,
up and down.”

Pretty soon they came to a stop and landed right in a strawberry-bed.

They were so pleased to see the strawberries, that they forgot about
their kites for the first time and let go of the strings. They began to
pick berries and eat them as fast as they could.

[Illustration: “_Led them into a room full of toys_”]

While they were eating away a little old woman came in and cried,

    “Fi-go-fee, what do I see,
    Children as sure as sure can be!”

Then Molly and Polly stopped eating and made a bow and said,

“We hope it does not annoy you to have us eat strawberries. You have so
many of them, and we rode here all the way with our kites!”

Then the little old woman looked out of the window and saw the kites
floating away.

She clapped her hands and cried,

    “Come with me, come with me,
    Many curious sights you’ll see!”

Then she took Molly and Polly by the hand and led them into a room full
of toys.

The little old woman cried,

    “See the toys, the many toys,
    Lost by careless girls and boys!”

Molly said, “May I get on the rocking-horse?” And Polly said, “May I ride
in that funny little carriage?”

The little old woman said in an old squeaky voice,

    “No time to play, no time to play;
    Call again another day!”

Then she showed them a room full of caps and coats and all kinds of
clothing, and she said with a wave of her hand, “Careless children lost
them all! Come now, help me count and sort out the clothes.”

Then Molly and Polly went to work to sort the caps. There were red caps,
and blue caps, and yellow caps, and all kinds of caps. Then they went to
work and sorted the neckties, and they worked all day, and still there
were more caps and more neckties than you ever dreamed of.

The room they were in led into a hall and the hall, too, was full of lost
things.

Suddenly Molly and Polly wanted to go home. They stopped work and said,
“We want to go home right away!”

The little old woman clapped her hands and said,

    “You are lost, you belong to me,
    Ha! ha! ha! he! he! he!”

Then the little old woman went down the hall and locked the door and
left Molly and Polly alone.

“How shall we ever get home?” they said.

Then they heard a voice say,

    “Through the tree-trunk, come with me;
    Only find the magic key!”

They looked around, and sure enough, right in the middle of the room was
a tree-trunk! Its roots came down to the floor. In the lower part of the
tree-trunk there was a door and the door was locked.

“Where shall we look for the magic key?” asked Molly and Polly. And the
tree fairy said,

    “The magic key will open the door;
    It never has been found before.”

Then Molly and Polly looked all over the room, you may be sure.

They looked under the piles of clothing and they looked under the
furniture. Just then a canary began to sing,

    “Give me, please, some food and drink;
    I can help you then to think!”

Now Molly saw a little pitcher of water on the window sill, and Polly saw
a little package of birdseed on a chair; so they gave the canary some
food and drink.

As they peeped into the bird-cage, they saw on the floor of the cage a
tiny key! The key was tied with blue ribbon. “Oh, the key! the key!” they
cried, but the Tree Fairy said,

    “Softly, softly, for you see,
    You must gently turn the key!”

Then Molly and Polly went to the tree-trunk on tiptoe, and they put the
key in the lock. Click! went the lock, and the door opened.

There stood the Tree Fairy all dressed in red and yellow!

The Tree Fairy was so little he could sit in Polly’s hand.

The Fairy called,

    “There is room, the tree is wide,
    Quickly, quickly jump inside.”

And it was well that Molly and Polly lost no time, for just as they had
gotten inside the tree the little old woman came back.

Up, up, up the tree they went. The Fairy held the key.

“I will let you out by and by, if you grant me a wish,” said the Fairy.

“What is your wish?” asked Molly and Polly, and the Fairy said, “Two
white sheets, nice and neat. Then I’ll use the key and set you free!”

Molly and Polly laughed and each one of them took out a neatly folded
pocket-handkerchief, and they presented them to the Fairy!

The handkerchiefs were just the right size for fairy sheets and the Fairy
was delighted.

He put the key in the lock; click, click, the door opened, and out
stepped the Ink-Bottle Babies in their own park at home.

They were in such a hurry to get home they forgot to say, “Thank you,”
and they did not even stop to see which tree they had stepped out of.
They have been looking for the tree ever since.

The Ink-Bottle Babies were so pleased to see Molly and Polly, that they
hugged them nearly to death.

The Ink-Bottle Mamma and Papa said, “No more magic kites for our family.”

Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma gave them each a cup of hot chocolate and put
them to bed.




CHAPTER VIII

THE MAGIC ROCKING-CHAIR

    Hear the rain, April rain!
    Falling on the windowpane;
    Pitter, patter, all day long;
    Can you hear the raindrops’ song?
    “We call the flowers to bloom again,
    They are refreshed by April rain.”
    Said the Ink-Bottle Babies, “Without any doubt,
    It is time to get our umbrellas out!”


When the Ink-Bottle Babies woke up next morning they cried, “Oh Ma! Oh
Pa! It is raining!”

Sure enough, the rain came splash, not a gentle patter, but splash!
splash! splash!

“Oh! oh! oh!” cried all the Ink-Bottle Babies. “How can we get to school
in the rain?”

The Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “I will get your umbrellas.”

The Ink-Bottle Papa said, “I will get your rubbers.”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies said, “Hurrah for rubbers and umbrellas!
Hurrah for a rainy day!”

[Illustration: “_The little dwarf called ‘Halt!’_”]

How funny they looked going along the street with their twenty-five
little umbrellas bobbing up and down.

As they went along they heard a voice cry,

    “In and out, without a doubt,
    I will keep dry if I but try!”

The Babies looked down and there stood a little dwarf. He had a long
white beard that came to the ground. He bobbed in and out among the
Babies and skipped first under this umbrella, and then under that
umbrella, and it kept the Babies quite busy looking for him.

“Are you going to school with us?” asked Molly.

“Do you know where the magic pitcher is?” asked Polly.

Then the most surprising thing happened!

The little dwarf called “Halt!” and every one of the Ink-Bottle Babies
stood still in the pouring rain.

Then the little dwarf said,

    “The magic pitcher has melted away;
    Don’t tell the secret, I beg you, pray!”

Then Molly said, “How could it melt away?”

Then the little dwarf said,

    “The magic pitcher is safe and sound,
    Perhaps you will find it underground.”

Then Polly said, “I believe you do not know anything about the magic
pitcher; you are only guessing!”

“Isn’t guessing allowed?” asked the dwarf. Then he shouted, “Forward!
march!” and they all went on to school. When they came to school the
dwarf said,

    “I hardly dare to go inside,
    Unless I find a place to hide!”

Then the Ink Bottle Babies suggested various places for the little dwarf
to hide in, but none of the places pleased him, so he said,

    “If you stay till afternoon,
    I will come back very soon!”

Then in a twinkling of an eye he was gone.

The teacher was so surprised to see all the Ink-Bottle Babies on such a
rainy day that she let them sit wherever they pleased. They went to the
blackboard and did neat little sums, and they all got their answers right.

At noon the teacher went home for dinner, and the Babies took out their
twenty-five little dinner pails, and began to eat their lunch.

The rain came down harder and harder, and the Babies said, “We wonder if
the little dwarf got drowned?”

Soon there was heard a rap-a-tap at the window, and a voice called,

    “The rain is rather wet to-day;
    Will you open your window a little way?”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies ran and opened the window and let the little
dwarf in.

Such a sputtering and fussing you never heard! He shook the rain from his
coat and said,

    “With no umbrella, how do you suppose,
    I could keep dry in my little clothes?”

Then he danced, and he hopped, and he skipped about until he was quite
dry.

He tasted something out of every one of the twenty-five dinner pails.

Then he climbed up on the window sill and said, “What shall we play,
‘I-Spy’?”

The Ink-Bottle Babies said, “There really is no place to hide. Please
tell us a story instead!”

“Tell about the magic pitcher, or the magic spoon,” cried Molly and Polly!

Then the little dwarf said,

    “If you really, truly do not care,
    I prefer The Magic Rocking-Chair!”

“Tell us about it! Tell us about it!” cried the Babies.

The little dwarf waited until the Babies were still; then he began the
tale of The Magic Rocking-Chair! Here is the story he told:

Once upon a time there was a little boy who lived with his grandparents
in the woods.

The grandparents were so old and feeble that the little boy had all the
wood to cut and the water to bring in. He was kept busy working from
morning till night.

One evening, as his grandparents fell asleep by the fire, the little boy
said, “I wish I had some one to play with me. I do wish I could have some
fun once in a while!”

A little dwarf stuck his head in at the door and said, softly,

    “Little boy, if you do not care,
    I’ll give you a magic rocking-chair!”

There stood the little dwarf in the doorway. He carried a beautiful red
rocking-chair. The chair was so heavy and large for the dwarf it was all
he could possibly carry.

[Illustration: “_Kept rocking until they arrived in China_”]

He set it down in the doorway and said in a whisper,

    “Wherever you think you’d like to go,
    Just sit in the chair and rock to and fro.”

Then in the twinkling of an eye the little dwarf was gone. The little boy
lost no time trying the chair, you may be sure.

He said, “I think I would like to go to China.” And he began to rock to
and fro. He rocked so hard that he rocked right out of the house. Then
the chair sailed away up over the tree-tops, and he kept rocking all the
way until they arrived in China.

The chair stopped outside of a fine house, and said, “I will wait for
you.”

Then the little boy went into the house and the Chinamen were very polite
to him. They taught him to eat with chopsticks, and they gave him a
pound of tea to take home with him. They tied the tea up in a fine silk
handkerchief.

A great clock struck twelve and the little boy remembered that the chair
did not want to wait later than twelve, so he bade his new friends
good-bye and went outside.

He stepped into the chair and said, “Home again, home again,” and they
rode along homeward.

The chair said, “I know one little verse the dwarf keeps whispering to
himself when he uses this magic chair. It is this,

    “‘When ’tis midnight heed the hour,
    Or the chair may lose its magic power.’”

“Thank you, I will remember that,” said the little boy, and whizzing
along they went on home.

There sat the old people just as he had left them, nid-nid-nodding by the
fire.

“Good-bye,” said the chair, “I will hide outside.”

The little boy took his tea and his silk handkerchief with him to his own
room and he soon fell asleep.

His work seemed easy to him next day. He said, “I wonder where I shall go
to-night. I believe I will go to Holland if the chair comes around.”

Next evening the old people fell asleep as before and there was a gentle
tap at the door. The little dwarf had brought the chair again, but he
wanted a present this time.

He begged so hard for a present that at last the little boy gave him the
red silk handkerchief. The little dwarf tied the handkerchief about him
as a sash and went off singing in the moonlight.

The little boy said, “I will go to Holland.”

He rocked away across the sea and he had a fine time, you may be sure.

The people in Holland gave him a cheese and a pair of wooden shoes to
take home.

At exactly twelve o’clock he stepped into the chair and rocked home.

Night after night the little boy rode away in the rocking-chair, and all
went well until the night he went to the circus.

The clown said so many funny things he forgot about the time. It struck
twelve o’clock, and one o’clock, and then the circus was over.

The little boy stepped out of the tent and his chair was nowhere to be
seen, so he had to walk all the way home.

The next evening the little dwarf came without the chair. He looked very
sad and he said,

    “Of course, little boy, you meant no harm,
    But you have broken the magic charm.”

Then the dwarf explained that the chair would rock no longer because the
little boy overstayed his time. He said with tears in his eyes that the
chair now would not rock across the room.

[Illustration: “_The clown said so many funny things_”]

Then the boy said, “Dry your eyes, I will tell you what to do.”

He took the little dwarf by the hand and they ran to the house of the
crossest giant in the land. They persuaded the giant to come and look at
the rocking-chair and mend it, for he was very clever about such things.

The giant made the chair as good as new; then he turned to the little boy
and said fiercely, “I have not had a good meal to-day. I will just eat
you up!”

Then the chair grew very angry. It grew so large suddenly that the giant
could sit in it, and it said,

    “Come have a ride, and rock to and fro;
    I am sure I know where you want to go!”

The giant forgot how hungry he was and he sat down in the chair. The
chair rocked him down to the river and threw him in.

He was not drowned, of course, but he was awfully scared, and the chair
rocked back to the little dwarf.

The little boy had many rides in the chair after that, but he took the
little dwarf with him, so that they would be sure to remember the time,
and not stay out after midnight.

The Ink-Bottle Babies cried, “Is that the end? Surely that is not the
end. There must be more.”

The little dwarf did not want to answer, so he said, “It is raining so
hard the teacher may not come back to school.”

“Please tell the end of the story,” begged the Babies.

Then the little dwarf cried, “What! ho! Here comes the farmer to take you
home!”

Sure enough, there was the farmer in his big wagon. He had come to take
the Ink-Bottle Babies home.

“Was that the end of the story?” called Molly and Polly.

The little dwarf smiled and said,

    “If you should ever want a ride,
    Come to my house and step inside!”

“Oh! oh! oh!” cried the Ink-Bottle Babies clapping their hands. “Do you
own the magic rocking-chair? Will you please take us to ride?”

The little dwarf ran out in the rain, laughing as he went.

How were the Ink-Bottle Babies to guess whether he owned the
rocking-chair or not?




CHAPTER IX

MAY-DAY

    In glad springtime the birds all sing,
    And sweet the woodland echoes ring;
    Why should we not be happy too,
    When skies are blue? when skies are blue?
    I heard the Ink-Bottle Babies say,
    “We’ll hang May baskets up to-day!”


“Oh! oh! oh!” cried the Ink-Bottle Babies. “It is May-Day! hurrah!
hurrah!”

Then they all got up and dressed in a hurry and said, “Oh Ma! may we go
to the woods? Oh Pa! may we all go to the woods together?”

Then Mamma and Papa said they might all go to the woods if they would be
very careful not to get lost.

The Ink-Bottle Babies each took a cute little basket, and they all went
to look for flowers and berries in the woods.

“I wonder if we will meet Red Riding-hood,” said Molly.

“I wonder if we will meet the wolf,” cried Polly.

At that very minute the Ink-Bottle Babies stood still for they heard a
voice cry,

    “Out of my house and off my land!
    How you came here I don’t understand!”

There stood a fierce little dwarf stamping his foot at them.

All the Ink-Bottle Babies bowed politely and said, “If you please, Sir,
may we gather a few violets and buttercups?”

Then the little dwarf said,

    “I love all the little flowers that grow,
    You shall not gather them, no! no!”

[Illustration: “_A fierce little dwarf stamping his feet_”]

Then Molly and Polly said, “If we each give you a cookie, would you let
us gather a few flowers?”

Then the little dwarf came and peeked into each one of the baskets and
saw, sure enough, that each Baby had a cookie in the basket.

Then the little dwarf clapped his hands and cried,

    “Cookies big and cookies round,
    Put them all upon the ground!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies all put their cookies on a large, flat stone,
and the little dwarf filled his pockets and his cap full of them.

Then he made a bow and said,

    “Pick all the flowers you like to-day,
    But after sundown do not stay!”

Then whisk, bound, the little dwarf was gone!

The Ink-Bottle Babies lost no time in picking flowers, you may be sure.

They found violets, daisies, and buttercups, and before they could
believe it, it was sundown.

They said, “We do not care what the little dwarf said, we will not hurry
home.”

Then they sat down and ate the sandwiches and apples they had brought
with them.

Just as the sun was setting Molly cried, “Oh, oh, oh,” and Polly cried,
“Oh, oh, oh,” and all the Ink-Bottle Babies cried, “Oh, oh, oh.” What do
you suppose was the matter? They all began to sink down, down, down, and
it became quite dark!

They sank down until they came to the top of the magic tower, which was
built under the sea!

They saw the fishes swim past them and they cried, “Oh, oh, oh, where are
we going?”

The roof of the magic tower opened and down the Ink-Bottle Babies went
to the very bottom of the tower. They were just beginning to get their
breath when the most beautiful princess in the world came and stood
before them.

She said,

    “Where did you come from, Babies dear,
    And how did you happen to come here?”

She saw only Molly at first; then Polly and all the rest of the Babies
came tumbling down the staircase.

The princess gathered up an armful of Babies and cried,

    “I am so happy, the charm is broken;
    I welcome the Babies now as a token.”

[Illustration: “_They had to work days and days to braid her hair_”]

The Babies patted the princess’ dress; it was soft and silky. Then they
all begged to braid her hair. They had to work days and days to braid all
her hair, it was so long and heavy.

“Tell us a story, please,” said the Babies.

And the princess began, “Once upon a time I went into the woods to gather
flowers!”

“Just like we did,” shouted all the Ink-Bottle Babies together.

“I was going along humming a little tune, when I saw a fierce little
dwarf,” continued the princess.

“Oh, oh, oh,” cried the Babies, “we met him, too! We met him, too!”

“The dwarf talked in rhyme,” said the princess. Then all the Babies
nodded their heads.

The princess said, “The dwarf would not let me have any flowers unless I
gave him a cookie, and when I did give him a cookie, he said,

    “‘Pick all the flowers you like to-day,
    But after sundown do not stay!’”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies set up a shout, for those were the very words
the little dwarf had said to them.

The princess said, “I was so happy gathering flowers that I forgot what
the little dwarf said, and after sundown I began to sink, down and down,
until I came to this magic tower.”

The princess shook her head and said, “All the doors and windows are
fastened. Besides, we are under the sea.”

The Ink-Bottle Babies looked out of the window, and sure enough, fishes
were swimming past.

Suddenly the princess said, “Hush, the little dwarf is coming. Run
Babies, and hide, every one of you!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies ran upstairs.

Click, click, went the key in the door, and the door opened and the
little dwarf came in stamping and scolding.

He came into the room where the princess was, and said,

    “Silver and gold have I none;
    How many skeins have you spun?”

The princess went to her spinning wheel, and showed the dwarf that she
had spun two skeins of thread.

The little dwarf stamped his foot and cried,

    “If out of the tower you want to go,
    You will spin one hundred skeins you know!”

Then he looked very cunning indeed, and he opened the door to his
storeroom. “There are one thousand bundles of flax,” said he. “You must
spin all of this.”

Then he said,

    “How soon do you really want to go,
    In about a hundred years or so?”

The princess laughed gaily and said,

    “At sundown if you care to call,
    Perhaps you’ll find I’ve spun it all!”

The little dwarf was so surprised at this answer that he looked
cross-eyed, but he did not answer the princess.

Next he drew from his pocket a pitcher and a spoon. Then he went and got
a rocking-chair that he had brought with him, and he said,

    “I’ll leave these treasures under the sea;
    Some day they’ll be of use to me.”

Then whisk! bound! he was off and away and the princess began to sing
softly,

    “Round and round the big wheel goes,
    Spin, spin, spin;
    Merrily the spring wind blows,
    Spin, spin, spin.”

The Ink-Bottle Babies came in dancing and singing for they had heard
every word that had been said.

They cried, “We are so glad Ma taught us to spin.”

The Ink-Bottle Babies looked in the garret and they found twenty-five
little spinning wheels. They all sat down and began to spin as hard as
they could.

Suddenly Molly stopped spinning and Polly stopped spinning and then all
the Babies stopped spinning, and they ran to the place where the chair
and spoon and pitcher were.

They cried out, “Oh, the magic chair and spoon and pitcher!”

Then the magic chair said, “All jump in and have a ride.”

And the magic spoon said, “I will show you how to spin.”

Then the magic pitcher said, “I will give you a drink of cider.”

They all made merry, you may believe.

[Illustration: “_Found the princess sitting alone by her spinning wheel_”]

In a short time the magic spoon had all the flax spun into thread; then
they grew tired and sleepy and went to bed. The next day they had no work
to do as the spinning was all done, so they looked all over the tower and
peeped into every closet and corner.

At last it was sundown and the little dwarf came as before and found the
princess sitting alone by her spinning wheel.

He winked his eye and said,

    “Did you spin all the flax I gave you yesterday?
    Are you sure you’re quite ready to go away?”

Then the princess showed him all the thread, and the dwarf was so
surprised that he hardly knew what to say. He began to gather up the
thread to take away with him, and he said,

    “You may laugh and shout, you can’t get out,
    You have had help beyond a doubt!”

Then the magic spoon came in and beat him, and the magic pitcher stood in
front of him and poured water on him. Then the magic chair came up behind
him and he fell right into it. The chair rocked him out of the window
into the deep sea, and he never troubled the princess any more.

Then the chair came back and said, “Get in, every one of you, and I will
give you a ride.”

Then they all got in, the magic pitcher and spoon, too, and they rode
away, away, away, to the palace where the princess lived. They let the
princess out; and then they rode to the home of the Ink-Bottle Babies,
and let all the Babies out. The magic chair then rocked away, taking the
magic spoon and pitcher with it.




CHAPTER X

VACATION TIME

    June’s a name we like to hear;
    Glad vacation’s drawing near;
    Good-bye, good-bye, lesson books;
    Welcome fields and merry brooks;
    All our lessons now are over;
    See the fields of nodding clover.
    The Ink-Bottle Babies gladly cry,
    “’Tis vacation time, good-bye, good-bye!”


“Hurrah!” cried the Ink-Bottle Babies, “hurrah! hurrah! it is glad
vacation time!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Mamma said, “We will all go to the woods to-day.”

So the Babies were busy packing their twenty-five little dinner pails and
they packed a basket of lunch for Ma and Pa.

They all started merrily toward the woods. Molly said, “Do you suppose we
will find the house where the little dwarfs live?”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies all clapped their hands and shouted, “Oh Ma!
oh Pa! do help us find the little dwarfs!”

Then Mamma took out a red and white table cloth and spread it on the
grass, and all the Ink-Bottle Babies began to unpack their dinner pails,
and soon they had a fine dinner ready.

They filled their glasses with water from a spring, and just as they were
going to sit down a little dwarf ran past them and called,

    “When you take your meal at noon,
    You should use the magic spoon!”

[Illustration: “_They filled their glasses with water from a spring_”]

Then the little dwarf took the magic spoon and dipped it into every glass
of water, and the water turned at once into lemonade.

They looked around to thank the little dwarf, but he was gone!

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies cried, “We must find the house where the
little dwarfs live!”

After a while the Ink-Bottle Mamma and Papa got tired and went home. They
left the Babies in the woods for a while.

The Babies were so sleepy they took quite a nap, and when they woke up
they said, “Let us look for the home of the little dwarfs.” They spoke in
whispers; they were almost afraid to speak out loud.

They picked up their dinner pails and walked a long way. Suddenly they
saw a light twinkling in the distance. The light came from a little wee
house in the woods. One of the Babies rapped at the door and a little
dwarf came out and said,

    “We have bedrooms five and twenty,
    And of food we have a plenty;
    Kindly step in, please, to-night,
    By this ray of candlelight!”

The Ink-Bottle Babies stepped inside, and they saw five and twenty little
dwarfs sitting at a table, eating soup with their five and twenty little
spoons. The little dwarfs got up politely and offered their seats to the
Babies and they sang,

    “Ink-Bottle Babies, ’tis very fine,
    With the magic pitcher at last to dine.”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies started to eat some soup, but one little dwarf
ran around and poured something into each soup dish out of the magic
pitcher. One plate of soup was changed to jelly and one plate was changed
to ice cream and so it went all round the table!

The Babies shouted, “Hurrah! for the magic pitcher,” and they laughed
until they cried!

Then they all sat down in a circle and they told stories and one little
dwarf cried,

    “I am so hungry to-night, ho! ho!
    Where did the magic spoon chance to go?”

The little dwarfs all shook their heads sadly. Then what do you suppose
happened? The Ink-Bottle Babies all rose and began to dance and cry,

    “We know who has the magic spoon,
    A little dwarf we met this noon!”

[Illustration: “_Whirling a great spoon_”]

Then all the dwarfs put on their fuzzy coats and their fuzzy caps, and
they said,

    “Follow the leader, every one,
    Follow along till rise of sun!”

Then the dwarfs went out of the door, two and two, and the Ink-Bottle
Babies did not know what else to do, so they followed them.

They ran along up hill and down dale until they came to a valley.

Then their leader called, “Hark! Listen! Hark!” They looked down in a
valley and they saw a little dwarf, dancing and singing.

The little dwarf was whirling a great spoon in the air. He sang,

    “Be it morning, night or noon,
    No one knows I’ve the magic spoon!”

Then the little dwarfs rushed at him from one side, and the Babies rushed
at him from the other side, and the magic spoon began to beat everybody,
and at last they all ran back to the home of the little dwarfs. Where the
magic spoon went nobody knew.

Then the five and twenty little dwarfs cried,

    “We will not cry, we will not sigh,
    The magic spoon will soon pass by!”

Pretty soon the magic spoon came dancing along and said,

    “I will go and hide upon your shelf,
    If you’ll let me go and help myself!”

The dwarfs replied,

    “Oh magic spoon, ’tis very clear
    To every one, you’re welcome here.”

The magic spoon was so pleased then that it began to stir the river that
flowed by the little dwarfs’ home, and the river became solid gold!

The little dwarfs sang,

    “Ha! ha! ha! when we are old,
    We shall never want for gold!”

Then they ran and got five and twenty little bags, and they began to
break up the gold in the river and fill their bags. Still there was more
gold than the little dwarfs could carry away.

At last the little dwarfs were done working and the Ink-Bottle Babies
were tired and sleepy and they said, “Tell us a story, please.”

Then one little dwarf told this story:

Once upon a time there was a little dwarf who had a rocking-chair.

The rocking-chair was a pretty one; it had golden rockers and golden
arms. It was a very comfortable rocking-chair! One day a dwarf got into
the chair. He was a very naughty dwarf. He would not say, “Thank you,”
and “If you please.”

Now, the chair took him for a ride and said,

    “Say ‘thank you for this ride,’
    Or you will have to stay inside!”

The naughty dwarf shook his head and cried,

    “You’ll not teach me manners, I do declare,
    You funny little rocking-chair!”

[Illustration: “_Splash! the chair went right into the water_”]

The chair said,

    “You may laugh and cry and even shout,
    Without ‘Thank you, Sir!’ you don’t get out!”

Then the dwarf began to laugh and cry and shout, for he was stuck fast in
the rocking-chair, and he could not get out!

Now the chair was in earnest and it rocked as fast as it could down to a
river and the dwarf cried,

    “What are you about? What are you about?
    If we rock in there, we will never get out!”

Splash! the chair went right into the water. It came up by and by and the
little dwarf shouted,

    “Thank you, thank you, please take me out,
    Thank you, thank you, I’ll laugh and shout!”

Then the chair took the dwarf out and set him on dry land.

Now as soon as the dwarf was free he would not say “Thank you,” again,
and the chair said, “I will teach him a lesson this time.”

So the chair asked the little dwarf to take another ride, and he rocked
him away, away, away up north to the land where the polar bear lives.
Then he rocked him right into a snowdrift. The little dwarf nearly froze
his toes and fingers, and the chair said,

    “I’ll leave you in this drift of snow,
    For far away I soon will go!”

The dwarf was so scared at the idea of being left alone in the snowdrift
that he said,

    “I’ll say to you on bended knees,
    Thank you, sir, and if you please.”

Then the chair rocked the little dwarf safely home, and ever after he was
so polite that if he even met a squirrel in the woods he would stop and
say, “Excuse me, sir, am I disturbing you? Thank you, sir, I will come
this way again, if you please!”

This was the end of the story and the Ink-Bottle Babies set up a shout as
usual.

“What became of the magic rocking-chair?” they all shouted together.

Then they clapped their hands softly, for they saw something rocking
toward them!

What do you suppose it was?

It was the magic rocking-chair!

Then the dwarf who had told the story said,

    “Tell the chair where you want to go;
    Ride away, ride away, singing ho! ho!”

Then the Ink-Bottle Babies all climbed into the rocking-chair, and they
shouted as they waved their twenty-five little pocket handkerchiefs,

    “We wave good-bye with backward looks;
    We will ride into the story books!”

The magic chair began to rock, and it rocked the Ink-Bottle Babies away,
away, away, into the Land of Story Books.

If you use your eyes well, you may see the Ink-Bottle Babies some day!

Did they ever come out of the books? Did they ever come home again? I did
not remember to ask them any questions. Perhaps you will meet them in
school.

[Illustration: “_We wave good-bye_”]

The last I saw of them they were rocking away and they sang this song,

    “Vacation time! Vacation time!
    ’Tis an hour for song and rhyme;
    We are very happy, for what do you think?
    We all came out of a bottle of ink!
    The Ink-Bottle Babies in every clime,
    Cry, ‘Hurrah! hurrah! for vacation time!’”




Fairy Tales of Long Ago


                          By Julia Darrow Cowles

                    Grades 3-4              Cloth Binding
                    128 Pages       Colored Illustrations

                     Price, 60 Cents a Copy, Postpaid

Train a child’s imagination by feeding it with the fancies of great
story-tellers, is a truism familiar to all teachers. There is nothing
like the old fairy tales for nourishing young imaginations. This group of
tales Mrs. Cowles has gathered from many sources and retold in charming
fashion. That they have gained, rather than lost, by the retelling, will
soon become apparent to teachers; for only the simplest words and phrases
are used, and the narrative is so handled as to emphasize the homely
lesson in manners or morals concealed in the story.

These tales are full of action and delicious nonsense which accord with
the child’s mode of living and thinking. Besides teaching the children
to read, and furnishing them with much fine entertainment, these stories
inculcate lessons in good-fellowship, usefulness, politeness, and
agreeable wholesome living.

The volume comprises fifteen stories, five of which are dramatized for
schoolroom use.

CONTENTS

[Illustration]

    The Nightingale
    The Six Swans
    Bruno’s Picnic
    Ole Shut-Eyes
    Inger’s Loaf
    Southwest Wind Esquire
    The Three Lemons
    The Twelve Months
    A Mad Tea Party
    The Enchanted Mead
    The White Cat
    The Ugly Duckling
    The Miller’s Daughter
    Professor Frog’s Lecture
    The Spring in the Valley

                       A. FLANAGAN COMPANY—CHICAGO




The Children of Mother Goose

                          By JULIA DARROW COWLES


                        _For Grades Two and Three_

                        _Illustrations in Colors_

                        _128 Pages Cloth Binding_

                     Price, 60 Cents a Copy, Postpaid

                      THE CHILDREN OF MOTHER GOOSE

       [Illustration: “_I wonder which goose gave it to me_”]

    “Oh, Mother Goose,” they all cried, “your goose has laid a
    golden egg!”

    “Why, sure enough,” said Mother Goose. “That must be my Easter
    present. I wonder which goose gave it to me!”

    Then Simple Simon waved his hand just as though he were in
    school, and said, “It was Jack-A-Dandy. I saw him put it in the
    nest!”

                             _Specimen Page_

Many a young reader longs to know more about his favorite characters in
Mother Goose—more than the short rhyme about each is able to tell him.
In this collection of miniature stories, he has his wish gratified. Here
he gets intimate glimpses of the home and community life of many old
friends: Mistress Mary, Boy Blue, Peter Piper, Curly Locks, Crosspatch,
Simple Simon, Jack and Jill, Tommy Tinker, Bobby Shaftoe, and a host of
others.

It appears that the Mother Goose children are a healthy, fun-loving,
workaday lot of youngsters, exactly like the boys and girls who read
about them. They attend Dame Trot’s school. They give tea parties and
Valentine parties. They take care of the babies of the Old Woman Who
Lives in a Shoe. They help the Crooked Man build himself a new chimney.
Dr. Foster takes them walking in the woods and teaches them things about
insects and spiders which every child is simply aching to know. Mother
Goose herself presides delightfully over their revels.

Teachers will find these stories valuable for inculcating a love of
reading in the child; first, because they are intrinsically fascinating,
and second, because they quicken his mental powers by a shrewd
application of some lesson in daily living.

                       A. FLANAGAN COMPANY—CHICAGO




The Circus Cotton-Tails

[Illustration]

                                    By
                           LAURA ROUNTREE SMITH

                       Illustrated by Fred Stearns


“Please tell us a laughing story,” pleaded a group of tenement children
at the Settlement story hour.

All children laugh when they read “The Circus Cotton-Tails” and how
the merry little bunnies diligently practice their circus tricks
while mischievous Bushy-Tail plays his tricks—whirling them off the
merry-go-round, and stealing Susan Cotton-Tail’s cookies. How the cookies
become alive and punish Bushy-Tail satisfies the little folk’s sense of
justice. And they delight in the description of the big circus parade,
and in the colored frontispiece and end sheets, to say nothing of the
many fascinating black and white illustrations.

128 pages. Cloth, 60 cents

                           A. FLANAGAN COMPANY
                                 CHICAGO




JUST STORIES

                                    BY
                            ANNIE KLINGENSMITH

            Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Gary, Indiana

                                AUTHOR OF
             “Household Stories” and “Norse Gods and Heroes”


In “Just Stories” Miss Klingensmith has selected and adapted from the
best in children’s literature more than thirty of the stories she
considers especially needed in work with children in the third and
fourth grades. They were originally printed as leaflets by Gary pupils
and aroused an enthusiasm that demanded their continued existence.
The illustrations are exceptionally good, and with the large, clear
type, good paper, and durable binding, “Just Stories” is an unusually
attractive book.

                          128 Pages—Illustrated
                              Cloth—60 Cents

[Illustration: “‘WHAT HAVE YOU TO SAY FOR YOURSELF?’ SAID THE LION”

(Illustration from “Benjy in Beastland”—one of the stories.)]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FAIRY BABIES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
